{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\vieww31760\viewh13320\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5014\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Tuesday, January 22, 3:30pm, room ELECE 101 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 Metric Spaces with Good Parameterizations 
\i0 \
Vyron Vellis \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 This talk is concerned with the Uniformization problem: which intrinsic qualities of a metric space allow a good parameterization by a Euclidean space? In the first part of the talk, we consider geometrically good (conformal, quasiconformal) parameterizations. While including a wide range of fractal examples, spaces as such enjoy geometric and analytic properties and a great amount of first-order calculus can be performed on them. In the second part of the talk, we discuss measure-theoretically good (Lipschitz, Holder) parameterizations. The problem of classifying spaces admitting such parameterizations is is one of the most important problems in geometric measure theory and it is associated to the famous Traveling Salesman Problem.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5170\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Thursday, January 24, 3:30pm, room ELECE 101 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 Geometric Partial Differential Equations 
\i0 \
Hung Tran \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Geometric PDEs are concerned with utilizing PDE techniques to study geometric problems. A general theme in my research is the investigation of equilibrium configurations with respect to natural quantities modelling the energy or entropy of geometric objects. Those equilibria enjoy several extremal properties that are usually described by elliptic PDEs. Consequently, understanding these equations would advance our knowledge about the associated geometries. In this talk, I'll describe my contribution to fundamental conjectures in the following concrete directions. First, we'll discuss PDEs on manifolds, exploiting elliptic equations that arise in special manifolds particularly in dimension four. The second direction focuses on geometric eigenvalue problems. Here the geometry of an object is examined through studying appropriate elliptic operators and their eigenvalues. Third, we'll talk about geometric flows and applications in which PDEs arise as a mechanism to change the shape of a manifold.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth8815\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Wendesday, January 30, 4:00pm, room MATH 110 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 High Order Methods on Sparse Grids for High-Dimensional Partial Differential Equations 
\i0 \
Wei Guo \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In this talk, we present our recent development of high order numerical methods on sparse grids. We first review the sparse grid discontinuous Galerkin (DG) scheme for transport equations and apply it to kinetic simulations. The method uses the weak formulations of traditional Runge-Kutta DG schemes for hyperbolic problems and is proven to be $L^2$ stable and convergent. A major advantage of the scheme lies in its low computational and storage cost due to the employed sparse finite element approximation space. This attractive feature is explored in simulating linear and nonlinear transport problems including the celebrated Vlasov-Poisson/Maxwell System. We then discuss our very recent development on another novel high order sparse grid method, which is as effective and efficient as the DG counterpart for box-shaped domains, but more flexible and easier to implement on unstructured meshes. Some preliminary results are presented to demonstrate the efficiency of our new method.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth8379\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Wendesday, February 06, 4:00pm, room MATH 110 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 Dynamics of Base Line Interaction for Algae-Daphnie Depending on Time Availability 
\i0 \
Akif Ibraguimov \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In this talk I will present some preliminary result obtained from the modified chemotaxis model proposed by Angie Piece. I will present the primitive model of two-species interaction depending on light availability. The Proof of existence and uniqueness for the primitive solution will be presented. From the obtained estimates one can conclude time stability (but not asymptotic) of the constructed solution. I naively hope that our approach can also highlights aspects of the evolution of the primitive live in reservoir, using PDE techniques. Most likely I'm very wrong! Most of the observation which will be presented are obtained by collaboration and joint discussion with Angie Piece and Eugenio Aulisa.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth700\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5480\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Wendesday, February 21, 3:30pm, room ELECE 101 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 SIAM sponsored Colloquia for Early Career Speakers 
\i0 \
Drs. Min Wang & Chunmei Wang \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Dr. Min Wang. \
Title: An Introduction to Bayesian Hypothesis Testing in High Dimensions. \
Abstract: In this talk, we briefly discuss how to implement Bayes factor-based procedures for the hypothesis testing problems and study their asymptotic properties when the model dimension grows with the sample size. We first consider the Bayes factor for ANOVA designs as an intermediate step toward developing the Bayes factors for general linear hypothesis testing that has been well studied in the frequentist literature. Finally, we generalize the Bayes factor method for testing equality of means of two normal populations in the "large-p, small-n" setting.\
Dr. Chunmei Wang. \
Title: Weak Galerkin (WG) Finite Element Methods for PDEs. \
Abstract: The speaker will present the basic principles of weak Galerkin (WG) finite element methods for second order elliptic problems. An abstract framework for WG will be presented and discussed for its potential in the scientific applications.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9975\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Wednesday, March 06, 4:00pm, room MATH 110 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 Multiple Attractors in an Epidemiological Model: Multiple Outbreak Cycles May Be an Intrinsic Effect 
\i0 \
Wenjing Zhang \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Multiple recurrent outbreak cycles have been commonly observed in infectious diseases such as measles and chicken pox. These complex disease outbreak behaviors are rarely captured by deterministic models. In this talk, we investigate a simple 2-dimensional SI model and propose that the coexistence of multiple attractors attributes to complex outbreak patterns. We first determine parameter conditions for the existence of an isolated center, then properly perturb the model to generate Hopf bifurcation and obtain limit cycles around the center. We further analytically prove that the maximum number of the coexisting limit cycles is three, and provide a corresponding parameter set for the existence of three limit cycles. Simulation results demonstrate three coexisting attractors, which contain one unstable endemic equilibrium and two stable limit cycles separated by one unstable limit cycle. Various disease dynamics can be predicted by a single nonlinear deterministic model based on different initial data.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Tuesday, March 19, 3:30pm, room ELECE 101\
 
\b0 A dynamical system for gas phase cycling in porous media
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 Authors: K. Alex Chang and W. Brent Lindquist
\b \

\b0 Abstract: We develop and analyze a 2x2 dynamical system describing flow through a single pore to study the dynamics of the appearance and dissolution of gas bubbles during two-component (CO2, H2O), two-phase (gas, liquid) flow. Our analysis indicates that three regimes occur at conditions pertinent to petroleum reservoirs. These regimes correspond to a critical point changing type from an unstable node to an unstable spiral and then to a stable spiral as flow rates increase. Only in the stable spiral case do gas bubbles achieve a steady-state finite size. Otherwise, all gas bubbles that form undergo, possibly oscillatory, growth and then dissolve completely. Under steady flow conditions, this formation and dissolution repeats cyclically.\
Background Introduction: Compositional flow involving a dissolved gas is of importance in many areas, including oil reservoir production, pipeline transport, CO2 sequestration, and the disposal of radioactive waste. Such flow involves the inherent possibility of creation of a gas phase and its subsequent transport. Excluding specific tertiary recovery practices such as CO2 foam flooding, keeping potential gas components dissolved in fluid phases is important for efficient extraction in reservoirs; the presence of gas bubbles and the resultant fluid-gas menisci complicates flow and can compete with fluid movement. The ability to control formation pressure or flow rates to prevent bubble formation is important for extraction efficiency. A challenge to the numerical simulation of compositional flow in porous media is the change in the system of equations that accompanies the appearance or disappearance of the gas phase. This difficulty has been addressed by several approaches. In our computations of two-phase, two-component (H2O, CO2) flow in a 3D pore network, we noted the periodic appearance and dissolution of the gas phase in certain pores. Intensive evaluation of our algorithms led us to conclude that the phenomenon was not numerical in origin. In reviewing the literature on gas transport in porous media at reservoir scales, in micromodel studies, specific studies on gas bubble formation, and mathematical studies of\
gas phase disappearance in water-hydrogen systems, we have been unable to find any mention of this periodic phenomenon. We have therefore pursued a mathematical\
investigation. In this article, we extract a 2x2 dynamical system from the mathematical model upon which our computations were based in order to study the mechanics of this phase-cycling phenomenon. \
In this talk  I will:\
- present the mathematical model and derive the dynamical system,\
- summarize the direction fields, critical points and solution trajectories,\
- report the results of numerical solutions to the dynamical system\
- provide summary critique of the work\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1020\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4659\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi18\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Thursday, March 21, 3:30pm, ECELE 101 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx22808\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 Compatible mesh-free methods\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Pavel Bochev, Sandia National Laboratories \
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx28870\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Abstract:  \
Particle and mesh-free methods offer significant computational advantages in settings where quality mesh generation required for many compatible PDE discretizations may be expensive or even intractable.  At the same time, the lack of underlying geometric grid structure makes it more difficult to construct mesh-free methods mirroring the discrete vector calculus properties of mesh-based compatible and mimetic discretization methods. In this talk we survey ongoing efforts at Sandia National Laboratories to develop new classes of locally and globally compatible meshfree methods that attempt to recover some of the key properties of mimetic discretization methods.\
\
We will present two examples of recently developed ``mimetic\'92\'92-like meshfree methods. The first one is motivated by classical staggered discretization methods. We use the local connectivity graph of a discretization particle to define locally compatible discrete operators. In particular, the edge-to-vertex connectivity matrix of the local graph provides a topological gradient, whereas a generalized moving least-squares (GMLS) reconstruction from the edge midpoints defines a divergence operator.\
\
The second method can be viewed as a meshfree analogue of a finite volume type scheme. In this method, the metric information that would be normally provided by the mesh, such as cell volumes and face areas, is reconstructed algebraically, without a mesh. This reconstruction process effectively creates virtual cells having virtual faces and ensures a local conservation property matching that of mesh-based finite volumes. In contrast to similar recent efforts our approach does not involve a solution of a global optimization problem to find the virtual cell volumes and faces areas. Instead, we determine the necessary metric information by solving a graph Laplacian problem that can be effectively preconditioned by algebraic multigrid.\
\
Several numerical examples will illustrate the mimetic properties of the new meshfree schemes.  The talk will also review some of the ongoing work to build a modern software toolkit for mesh-free and particle discretizations that leverages Sandia\'92s Trillinos library and performance tools such as Kokkos.\
\
This is joint work with N. Trask, M. Perego,  P. Bosler, P. Kuberry, and K. Peterson.
\b \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Wednesday, April 10, 4:00pm, room MATH 110 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 A Semidefinite Approach to Quantum Tomography 
\i0 \
Ismael De-Farias \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 TBA\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4938\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Wednesday, April 17, 4:00pm, room MATH 110 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 TBA 
\i0 \
Yuan Liu, Mississippi State University \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 TBA\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth680\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9963\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Wednesday, April 24, 4:00pm, room MATH 110 
\b0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 A Path Integration Approach to Structural Sensitivity for Dynamical Models in Biology and Astronomy 
\i0 \
Kevin Long \
abstract \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 TBA \
\
\
\
}